Add bulk:write and bulk:mWrite (#419)
kuzzleio/sdk-javascript: doc/6/controllers/bulk/mWrite/index.md

---
code: true
type: page
title: mWrite

> description: Create or replace multiple documents directly into the storage engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Creates or replaces multiple documents directly into the storage engine.
```

---

# mWrite

<SinceBadge version="6.2.0" />

<SinceBadge version="Kuzzle 1.8.0" />

> Create or replace multiple documents directly into the storage engine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creates or replaces multiple documents directly into the storage engine.
```

This is a low level route intended to bypass Kuzzle actions on document creation, notably:
  - check [document validity](/core/1/guides/essentials/data-validation),
  - add [kuzzle metadata](/core/1/guides/essentials/document-metadata),
  - trigger [realtime notifications](/core/1/guides/essentials/real-time) (unless asked otherwise)

<br/>

```js
mWrite (index, collection, documents, [options])
```

<br/>

| Argument     | Type              | Description          |
| ------------ | ----------------- | -------------------- |
| `index`      | <pre>string</pre> | Index name           |
| `collection` | <pre>string</pre> | Collection name      |
| `documents`   | <pre>object[]</pre> | Array of objects representing the documents     |
| `options`    | <pre>object</pre> | Query options        |

### documents

> An array of object. Each object describes a document to create or replace, by exposing the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An array of objects. Each object describes a document to create or replace, by exposing the following properties:
```

  - `_id`: document unique identifier (optional)
  - `body`: document content

### options

Additional query options

| Property   | Type<br/>(default)              | Description        |
| ---------- | ------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| `queuable` | <pre>boolean</pre><br/>(`true`) | If true, queues the request during downtime, until connected to Kuzzle again |
| `notify` | <pre>boolean</pre><br/>(`false`) | if set to true, Kuzzle will trigger realtime notifications |
| `refresh`  | <pre>string</pre><br/>(`""`)    | If set to `wait_for`, waits for the change to be reflected for `search` (up to 1s) |

---

## Resolves

Returns a `hits` array, containing the list of created documents, in the same order than the one provided in the query.

Each created document is an object with the following properties:

| Name      | Type              | Description  |
| --------- | ----------------- | ------------------- |

> | \_id      | <pre>string</pre> | ID of the newly created document                       |

Reviewer: `_id` should be enclosed in backquotes. Same goes for other names below.

| Name      | Type              | Description  |
| --------- | ----------------- | ------------------- |

> | `\_id`      | <pre>string</pre> | ID of the newly created document                       |

Reviewer: Shouldn't you get rid of that backslash now that these names are between backquotes?
